                         CURRENT SERVER ROADMAP
    
A full up2date server could be a VERY complex critter, and so I plan to 
add functionality in stages or major releases. 

Naturally, once this is public, there will also be requests/bug fixes/
patches from other users. I hope, anyway.

Status: 
1.0.x An anonymous only type of up2date - we just drop all
the registration data on the floor, pass back just enough of a SysId to
work, and simply update packages. This should be a very acceptable
substitute for yup. This is the production release right now.

1.1.0 was completed, but the timing turned out to be bad. Due to various
reasons, John and I both consider the mod_python work more critical (we
need current to scale more than we need it to provide a full db solution)
The 1.1.0 version does _work_, and we're certainly not going to get rid
of the code (its quite nice now). We're just going to put it aside for 
a while.

1.2.x will not be released.

1.3.x is primarily John's work on getting current to 
work with apache/mod_python/mod_ssl. This should scale MUCH better than
the pure python daemon we have today. With a little cadmin trickery,
it won't be any harder to setup than the old plain daemon. As a result,
the pure python daemon will not be supported in 1.4.x

1.4.x will be production quality versions of the 1.3.x work. I want to 
see about using apache even more than we do right now, logging improvements,
etc. 

1.5.x I  expect this is about where Red Hat 8.0 will come into play, which
means moving to apache 2.0, mod_python 3.0, and TADA python 2.2.  Due to the
timing of the RHL 8.0 release, this might be a quick development cycle. 
The 2.9 up2date API (only one function call is new) will be supported here.
The rhnsd trick will be implmented in this version as well.

1.6.x will be the production version of the up porting 1.5.x

1.7.x will forward porting the SQL work from 1.1.x. pysqlite looks VERY 
appealinig as a replacement for the shelve backend (which we've grown to 
hate). pysqlite is an "embedded" SQL database, that would let us _just_ use
the sql backend for everything. People wanting a simple to setup server,
that really only does the anonymous type of support we've had to now will
use it. Sites wanting even more power will run postgresql.

1.8.x Production anonymous only server using pysqlite.

1.9.x Begining support on host tracking, actions, etc. 

 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Features to be added along the way, somewhere:

1. 2.7 versions of the up2date client have hooks to be able to plug in
arbitrary code, so that rhnsd could trigger, for instance, installation of a
new config file. This is the server push mechanism needed to replace gromit. 
Big thing here will be figuring out what how why where security. Little bits
like that.

2. Red Hat has provided a clean mechanism for a different CA certificate 
to be used (just replace RHN-CA-CERT), but they hard coded the GPG public
key for package signing. Oops. FIXED in 2.7.25 

3. For Current's expected target audience, I can't imagine that the RHN
applet (the desktop "throbber") is all that important. If it _is_ you'll
have to tell me.

4. We'll start to need a more powerful control/administrative system than
cadmin pretty soon. I'd like that to be web based (like RHN itself). 
    
    


